Documentation for memory optimization and micro iterations topics (#1264)
AntaresSimulatorTeam/antares-xpansion: docs/user-guide/get-started/memory-optimization.md

Reviewer: Rename the file `in-memory-compact-subproblems`

> # Compact Memory Subproblem Inputs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# In-memory Compact Subproblems
```

## Motivation

In the Benders decomposition framework, the resolution starts by loading the
MPS/SVF files of all the subproblems, so that each of them is held in memory as
a fully instantiated optimization problem for the whole duration of the run.

> On a study covering a large time scale, the number of subproblems grows

Reviewer: Do not refer to the business notion of `time`, just keep the following saying that with a large nb of subpb, RAM usage grows

accordingly, and this initial loading leads to a huge RAM consumption — the
memory footprint scales with the number of subproblems times the size of each
problem, and quickly becomes the limiting factor well before computation time
does.

Yet this cost is largely redundant: the subproblems all derive from the same

> Antares study and therefore share a huge part of their columns and rows — the

Reviewer: This not true, no Antares in your case. Instead you should pinpoint that a lot of data is shared between subproblems, remove all business notions

same variables, the same constraint structure — differing only in the data that
is specific to each time frame.

> The idea of the memory optimization is to exploit this redundancy by no longer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The idea is to exploit this redundancy by no longer
```

providing one MPS file per subproblem, but a single MPS file acting as a
*skeleton*: the common structure shared by all subproblems. This skeleton is
complemented by a set of much lighter files, one per subproblem, containing
only the subproblem-specific data needed to instantiate the actual problem at

> resolution time. Memory then holds one copy of the shared structure instead of

Reviewer: One copy of the shared structure per proc !

Author: i've just added a sentence saying that we have an instance per proc. Is that enough ?

> one full problem per subproblem, and the per-subproblem cost is reduced to its

Reviewer: ```suggestion
one full problem per subproblem, and the per-subproblem memory footprint is reduced to its
```

> lightweight specialization data.

Reviewer: Also add a sketch of how a full problem is built with the most of the matrix / RHs coming from the skeleton, and minor modifications from the per-subproblem data (something with a file populating a big matrix and showqing other files that make slight amendments to this matrx)

> 

Reviewer: This is where we can add a table comparing the different option normal / cache / compact subpb in memory

## Study format

A memory-optimized study no longer provides one MPS/SVF file per subproblem.
Instead, the subproblems are described by a single skeleton problem together
with a set of CSV files containing the per-subproblem data. In the following,
*rows* and *columns* are understood in the MPS sense: rows are the constraints
and columns are the variables of the optimization problem. The study is given
under the following format:

- **`sub.mps` / `sub.svf`** — the core of the optimization problem, common to
  all the subproblems. This skeleton carries the full structure shared by every
  subproblem; only the coefficients listed in the CSV files below differ from
  one subproblem to another.

- **`coef.csv`** — each row of this file corresponds to one subproblem and
  contains the coefficients to set in the constraint matrix in order to build
  that subproblem from the skeleton.

  Example:

  ```csv
  sub/sub_1.mps,100,220,300
  sub/sub_2.mps,300,300,300

>   ```

Reviewer: Possible to keep the indentation ?

- **`coef_cols.csv`** — contains the column names on which the constraint
  matrix coefficients of `coef.csv` must be set.

  Example:

  ```csv
  z[line_1],z[Line_2],z[line_3]

>   ```

Reviewer: Possible to keep the indentation ?

- **`coef_rows.csv`** — contains the row names on which the constraint matrix
  coefficients of `coef.csv` must be set. Together, `coef_rows.csv` and
  `coef_cols.csv` define the positions in the matrix, and each line of
  `coef.csv` provides the values to write at these positions for the
  corresponding subproblem.

  Example: 

  ```csv
    constraint_1,constraint_2,constraint_3

>   ```

Reviewer: Possible to keep the indentation ?

- **`obj_coef.csv`** — contains the coefficients to set in order to build the
  objective function of the corresponding subproblem.

  Example:

  ```csv
  sub/sub_1.mps,1.001,1.02,-1.2
  sub/sub_2.mps,1.001,1.02,-1.2

>   ```

Reviewer: Possible to keep the indentation ?

- **`obj_cols.csv`** — contains the column names on which the objective
  coefficients of `obj_coef.csv` must be set.

  Example:

  ```csv
  redispatching_1,redispatching_2,redispatching_3

>   ```

Reviewer: Possible to keep the indentation ?

- **`rhs.csv`** — contains the values to set on the right-hand side in order to
  build the corresponding subproblem.

  Example:

  ```csv
  sub/sub_1.mps,83,84,92
  sub/sub_2.mps,23,45,44

>   ```

Reviewer: Possible to keep the indentation ?

- **`rhs_rows.csv`** — contains the row names on which the RHS values of
  `rhs.csv` must be set.

  Example:

  ```csv
  branch_line_1,branch_line_2,branch_line_3

>   ```

Reviewer: Possible to keep the indentation ?

At resolution time, a given subproblem is therefore obtained by loading the
skeleton and applying its line of `coef.csv`, `obj_coef.csv` and `rhs.csv` at
the positions designated by the name files.

## Activating the memory optimization mode

> Providing the study in the format described above is not sufficient on its own:
> the memory optimization mode must also be explicitly enabled in the simulation
> settings by setting the variable:
> `CACHE_PROBLEMS: 3` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Providing the study in the format described above is not sufficient on its own:
the memory optimization mode must also be explicitly enabled in the simulation
settings by setting:
`CACHE_PROBLEMS: 3` in the `options.json` file, see [Settings of benders executable](../options-definition.md)
```

With this value, the solver expects the skeleton MPS/SVF file together with the
CSV coefficient files, and builds each subproblem at resolution time by
applying the corresponding per-subproblem data to the shared skeleton, instead
of loading one fully instantiated problem per subproblem.

> 

Reviewer: It could be good also to add a sketch showing at which stage of the Benders algorithm this happens and how you update the subs (e.g. a sketch with 2 cores, and say 4 or 5 subpb, at a given Benders iteration you have 1 subpb on each core and then you update them by querying the varying data)
